---
layout: post
title: Japan Ski Trip January 2019
author: Rob
--- 
## Skied Mt. Yotei, Mt. Iwaonapuri, Mt. Shiribetsu and Mt. Furano from January 17-26 2019 

- **Mt. Yotei 1/20**

First day of skiing 1/20 was spent on Mt. Yotei.  Easy access from the parking lot to a skin track that was overall very well set in.  Yotei is a popular spot especially where we were accessing it still there was no one in the parking lot when we arrived and maybe three other groups when we got going.  The track up was easy to follow and really did not have any issues about where to go or how high to go up. It is possible on a clear day to summit Yotei but our objective was to simply find a safe zone to lap.  We found exactly that.  The snow was great and got us pretty excited for the rest of the trip.

- **Mt. Shiribetsu 1/21**

Second day started off with me backing our van into a guard rail.  This was really fun and a great moment in our trip.  Eventually we headed for Mt. Shiribetsu just to the south east of Yotei.  After having skied such great snow on Yotei the day before we were kind of like well lets try this again.  So we found a parking spot on the NW corner of Shiribetsu.  This may not have been the ideal spot but we did see a pair of skiers entering here as well.  Being unfamiliar with the mountain we decided to follow suit.  The skin track led us across a flat farm field to the mountain.  This day was really cold and the wind up on the ridge was even colder. Skiing was great again although we did come across some wind blown sections and sun affected snow.

{% include map.html %}

- **Mt. Iwaonapuri 1/22**

Third day was a day of skiing I won't soon forget and by writing it down here I shall never. The snow never stopped and it was blower powder.  We did not need to go very high and we found a great area to lap and just had a phenomenal day.  This was the closest proximity to the Niseko ski area and in turn there were the most people.  There is a great onsen at the base too which I think increases its draw.  Still I would not go so far as to say it was 'busy'.

- **Mt. Furano 1/24**

We ended up getting a day off due to a cancelled flight from Chitose.  It was snowing really hard while we were at the airport and figured it was unlikely we would get out.  Finally they cancelled our flight shortly after we supposed to board. We weren't sure what to do.  We could have rebooked for the next morning but having just skied Iwaonupuri the day before we decided to have another go at finding some powder to ski.  Tempted to go back to Iwaonupuri. Instead we decided to head North East to Furano.  It was a little difficult to find a rental car but we eventually locked down a 4 wheel drive Corolla hatch back and it worked great.  The roads were snow packed and it took 3+ hours to get to Furano but we made it.  

The skiing turned out to be challenging due to the sheer amount of snow.  Finding a steep enough shot to ski confidently proved difficult.  Finally Dana was able to set a track up to a nice steep line in the trees later in the day and it provided some really deep mind bender blower pow.